
Jahyluyk: A race against your computer
Readme File - 11 February 2024
Version 1.0



	TABLE OF CONTENTS

	1.0 Installation
	2.0 Troubleshooting & Technical Support
	3.0 Product License

------------------
(1.0) INSTALLATION
------------------
You can install the game by copying this github repo by doing 
git clone https://github.com/Sode07/ICT5/ at your preferred folder
install the newest version of cpython from https://www.python.org/downloads/ 
If you use pip use pip install pillow or get it from PyPi https://pypi.org/project/pillow/ 

You create a save file by selecting the preferred map type after which the game shows you the generated map and you can either regenerate or load the generated map.

-------------------------
(1.1) SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
-------------------------
The source code version of Jahyluyk requires:
  -Pentium(tm) computer
  
  -As much as you can get of RAM
  
  -Operating system
  
  -Monitor and video card capable of displaying colors
  
  -Mouse
  
  -some hard drive space (plus space for save games)

  -CPython 3 or newer with standard libraries and pillow library

To View the Manual - Locally
  From the installed directory on your hard drive, run the find the readme.md file and all the instructions are there(the alternative is a web version that is private as of 13.2.2024).

-----------------
(1.2) HOW TO PLAY
-----------------


The game isn't as intuitive as we would have liked to the menus are self explanatory. After you select the type of map you want you will have to close the preview of the map. If you liked the map click the load saved map button this also applies if you want to continue a previous game. The maps aren't created equal the continents map is what we recomend as a normal difficulty due to the even spread of diffrent tile types. Desert map is the hardest and pangea is easiest ocean is somewhere between desert and continents

After you reach the game your mission is now to get 100 money and cities at 45 11 and 45 13 as fast as you can. To achieve this goal you will use cities and civilian units. New Civilian units can be bought with 10 money at any of the cities the civilian will become available after you restart the game by pressing quit. The game should automatically restart after the first move. Now that the game has restarted you will have an actually usable civilian unit that you can use as you did with the starting civilian.

The games cities are your only source of the resource needed to win money. each city gets a production assigned to them when they are built according to the surrounding tiles grass gives you +1 mountains +2 and other cities -1.

Until ordered to close if you want to close go to the python console and press ctrl + c this prevents the game from reopening and you can now safely quit. As you may notice the further away from the left side of the screen you get the more desynced the frontend and the backend of the game get this is intentional as the games subtitle is "A race against your computer" there is also a hidden move counter running in the background which is synced to your ram amount and after the timer runs out you will blue screen :(

-----------------------------
(2.0) Explanation of the code
-----------------------------


The game consists of 18 separate files and can be run from the main.py file. The main.py file opens the menu.py file that has options and some buttons using the Tkinter render library. The menu file also calls the generate.py script which generates the world from a few presets, or you can also use custom values for noise generated by our noise.py file or modifying the different thresholds for differing land types.

After the generate script has run you will be presented with the resulting map. You can safely close the preview window and load the save which will start the main game.py file which calls the renderer and the GUI scripts.
We also have the turn handler script which is currently only used to calculate money it has a function getMoney where it checks how much money you have you can either have True or False of money.

The movement script does mysterious things if you left click on a tile (tiles are not actually what are rendered those are other things also referred to as tiles) it selects the unit or city on said tile. If you have selected an unit and now right click on an adjacent tile the unit will be moved there.

The game also includes a revolutionary new saving system using the great file format csv the first 1250 lines are map data and the rest are info on your great empire. The save file editor is called Microsoft excel and can be found on most computers by default you can also use alternative applications for the purpose of save file editing.

The game is rendered using our own files Hexagonal_grid.py and renderer.py with the help of the Tkinter library the hexagonal grid file generates hexagons. We also use some background textures for which we use the pillow library which unfortunately is not a deffault library in python anymore after the deprecation of the original PIL. Pillow is used to convert efficent .webp files at a standard resolution to .png files which tkinter can understand at your screen resolution.

We also have a few functions in the game file that handle quiting and winning also if you believe to have won you need to press quit or move a unit. Winning has 2 files win.py which actually displays the victory screen and checkwinstate that as it's name says checks if you have won but it is only checked once every time the game file refreshes.

The game suffers from a bad memory leak with a O notation of O(N) which means that the ammount of memory scales linearly with the amount of moves for some reaeson python got very unstable at some point so we force python to reopen after the most memory intensive functions like moving or before checking win state and running win animation.

----------------------------------
(2.1) Explanation of the printouts
----------------------------------


As you may have noticed the game has multiple printouts during gameplay. There are 2 printouts for the initialisation of the game after that the next printout you will probably see is your map type Deset for desert pange for pangea or ocean cont for continents.

Due to our attempts to find some memory leaks you will probably next notice the amounts that the csv file has been read and every time you move you will also notice a memory dump from tracemalloc there are also a few prints related to checking for victory and for the menu Tilkki means that check win has been run unit exists is what is on victory tile 1 roobe is money.

I believe that the rest of the prints are self explanatory with the context from the explanation of the code ie. Unit selected at coordinates: 6 13 means that an unit has been selected at a tile on x coordinate of 6 and y of 13.


----------------------------------
(2.2) Explanation of the Save file
----------------------------------


Our save file is best viewed with an application that colours the comma separated values differently like Mechatroner’s Rainbow CSV that allows you to see the different indexes more clearly.

The first value [0] is the X coordinate of the tile. The second index [1] is the Y coordinate of the tile. The third index [2] is the type of tile on the coordinates. The fourth index [3] is the type of unit on said tile. The fifth index [4] is the population of a city on the tile. Index [5] also exists in the files but goes unused as with a lot of other code in the files.

On row 1251 there are additional information at index 1 [0] is the current turn on index 2 [1] is current money and the third index [2] is your production per turn.




---------------------
(3.0) PRODUCT LICENSE
---------------------

SOFTWARE USE LIMITATIONS AND LIMITED LICENSE

General Product License.   This copy of Jahyluyk (the "Software")
is intended for any use you can think of go nuts and do anything you want the game is not even compiled.

Acceptance of License Terms.   By acquiring and retaining this
Software, you assent to the terms and restrictions of this limited license.


Jahyluyk™ 2024 Jussi ja Eino

-----------------------------------------
(3.1) Sources
-----------------------------------------
The game uses a modified hexagon script from stack overflow https://stackoverflow.com/questions/55842453/how-do-i-create-a-pentagon-and-hexagon-using-create-line-in-python-tkinter-canva we also use the Pillow library see above. Art is made with photoshop and gimp winning song is from the United States Army Band https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CBTv4xWwPlQ the main "theme" is made with the audiocraft library from Meta AIs FAIR research team using the Masked Audio Generation using a Single Non-Autoregressive Transformer (MAGNeT) technology. We also used some of metas premade models as a base specifically MAGNeT small 30s model https://huggingface.co/facebook/magnet-small-30secs and MAGNeT-Hybrid Medium 
https://huggingface.co/facebook/hybrid-magnet-medium 